Context
Buying and selling used phones and tablets used to be something that happened on a handful of online marketplace sites. But the used and refurbished device market has grown considerably over the past decade, and a new IDC (International Data Corporation) forecast predicts that the used phone market would be worth $52.7bn by 2023 with a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 13.6% from 2018 to 2023. This growth can be attributed to an uptick in demand for used phones and tablets that offer considerable savings compared with new models.

Refurbished and used devices continue to provide cost-effective alternatives to both consumers and businesses that are looking to save money when purchasing one. There are plenty of other benefits associated with the used device market. Used and refurbished devices can be sold with warranties and can also be insured with proof of purchase. Third-party vendors/platforms, such as Verizon, Amazon, etc., provide attractive offers to customers for refurbished devices. Maximizing the longevity of devices through second-hand trade also reduces their environmental impact and helps in recycling and reducing waste. The impact of the COVID-19 outbreak may further boost this segment as consumers cut back on discretionary spending and buy phones and tablets only for immediate needs.

 

Objective
The rising potential of this comparatively under-the-radar market fuels the need for an ML-based solution to develop a dynamic pricing strategy for used and refurbished devices. ReCell, a startup aiming to tap the potential in this market, has hired you as a data scientist. They want you to analyze the data provided and build a linear regression model to predict the price of a used phone/tablet and identify factors that significantly influence it.

 

Data Description
The data contains the different attributes of used/refurbished phones and tablets. The data was collected in the year 2021. The detailed data dictionary is given below.

Data Dictionary

brand_name: Name of manufacturing brand
os: OS on which the device runs
screen_size: Size of the screen in cm
4g: Whether 4G is available or not
5g: Whether 5G is available or not
main_camera_mp: Resolution of the rear camera in megapixels
selfie_camera_mp: Resolution of the front camera in megapixels
int_memory: Amount of internal memory (ROM) in GB
ram: Amount of RAM in GB
battery: Energy capacity of the device battery in mAh
weight: Weight of the device in grams
release_year: Year when the device model was released
days_used: Number of days the used/refurbished device has been used
normalized_new_price: Normalized price of a new device of the same model in euros
normalized_used_price: Normalized price of the used/refurbished device in euros
 

Submission Guidelines
There are two ways to work on this project:
i. Full-code way: The full code way is to write the solution code from scratch and only submit a final Jupyter notebook with all the insights and observations.

ii. Low-code way. The low-code way is to use an existing solution notebook template to build the solution and then submit a business presentation with insights and recommendations.

The primary purpose of providing these two options is to allow learners to opt for the approach that aligns with their individual learning aspirations and outcomes. The below table elaborates on these two options.

Submission type

Who should choose

What is the same across the two

What is different across the two

Final submission file [IMP]

Submission Format

Full-code

Learners who aspire to be in hands-on coding roles in the future focussed on building solution codes from scratch

Perform exploratory data analysis to identify insights and recommendations for the problem 

Focus on code writing: 10-20% grading on the quality of the final code submitted

Solution notebook from the full-code template submitted in .html format

.html

Low-code

Learners who aspire to be in managerial roles in the future-focussed on solution review, interpretation, recommendations, and communicating with business

Focus on business presentation: 10-20% grading on the quality of the final business presentation submitted

Business presentation in .pdf format with problem definition, insights, and recommendations

.pdf

Please follow the below steps to complete the assessment. Kindly note that if you submit a presentation, ONLY the presentation will be evaluated. Please make sure that all the sections mentioned in the rubric have been covered in your submission.

i. Full-code version

Download the full-code version of the learner notebook.
Follow the instructions provided in the notebook to complete the project.
Clearly write down insights and recommendations for the business problems in the comments.
Submit only the solution notebook prepared from the learner notebook [format: .html]
ii. Low-code version 

Download the low-code version of the learner notebook.
Follow the instructions provided in the notebook to complete the project.
Prepare a business presentation with insights and recommendations to the business problem.
Submit only the presentation [format: .pdf]
2. Any assignment found copied/plagiarized with other submissions will not be graded and awarded zero marks.

3. Please ensure timely submission as any submission post-deadline will not be accepted for evaluation.

4. Submission will not be evaluated if

it is submitted post-deadline, or,
more than 1 file is submitted.
 

Best Practices for Full-code submissions
The final notebook should be well-documented, with inline comments explaining the functionality of code and markdown cells containing comments on the observations and insights.
The notebook should be run from start to finish in a sequential manner before submission.
It is important to remove all warnings and errors before submission.
The notebook should be submitted as an HTML file (.html) and NOT as a notebook file (.ipynb).
Please refer to the FAQ page for common project-related queries.
 

Best Practices for Low-code submissions
The presentation should be made keeping in mind that the audience will be the Data Science lead of a company.
The key points in the presentation should be the following:
Business Overview of the problem and solution approach
Key findings and insights which can drive business decisions
Business recommendations
Focus on explaining the key takeaways in an easy-to-understand manner.
The inclusion of the potential benefits of implementing the solution will give you the edge.
Copying and pasting from the notebook is not a good idea, and it is better to avoid showing codes unless they are the focal point of your presentation.
The presentation should be submitted as a PDF file (.pdf) and NOT as a .pptx file.
Please refer to the FAQ page for common project-related queries.
 

Happy Learning!